Ibexa DXP editions > Ibexa Headless (#2242)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/ibexa_products/headless.md

---
description: [[= product_name =]] Headless edition features, capabilities and benefits.
---

# Ibexa DXP Headless edition product guide

## What's [[= product_name_headless =]]

[[= product_name =]] Headless edition focuses on content management. It provides tools to collaboratively create content,
and interfaces (API) to distribute this content.

Multilingual, multichannel, extensible, [[= product_name_headless =]] is an advanced Content Management Framework (CMF),
a Product Information Management (PIM) platform, and even a Digital Asset Management (DAM) repository.
It's provided without a default front office but with a complete Back Office, and several APIs to manage and access content.

## Availability

> See [[[= product_name_headless =]] license pricing](https://www.ibexa.co/products/pricing?tab=1).

Author: Maybe I should talk about asking for a demo or a trial license.

```suggestion
To start using Ibexa Headless you must purchase a product license.
For more information, see [[[= product_name_headless =]] license pricing](https://www.ibexa.co/products/pricing?tab=1).
```

You can [contact us](https://www.ibexa.co/products/pricing) or [contact one of our partners](https://www.ibexa.co/partners).

## How it works

> ### Contributor's practical usage

Author: "End users" sounds ambiguous to me. They could be understood as front-end users.

@dabrt What about this?

```suggestion
### Editorial stage
```

You access with any web browser from any platform to a rich Back Office, the main place to

- define users and their rights (customers, subscribers, editors, etc.),
- organize content (content types, fields, tree, tags, languages, and more),
- edit content in a collaborative workplace with versions and workflows.

Then, content is available to end users through REST, GraphQL, or every output you can imagine like websites or apps.

### Technical backstage

When you have a license, you install [[= product_name_headless =]] through Composer
on an architecture including at least a web server with PHP and a relational database server.
For performance, several bricks can be added to your stack such as a reverse proxy or a search engine.

By using a version control system and environment variables, you can deploy your configuration and extensions on several environments including [[= product_name_cloud =]].

> 

Author: I redorder this section in 8030b4e615b56f7b7698990fa13d61da988d8f7f

I push Symfony upward, out of the APIs; and I set the image between the APIs intro and the API list.

- The OAuth 2 Client and Server allow to connect to an SSO or be the SSO.
- The design engine and its theme templates mechanism allows to serve the content in several shapes.
- The PHP API opens [[= product_name_headless =]] to extendability to fit your needs.
  For example, content can be computed, edited or served in specific ways such as
  scheduled/live imports/exports, automated edition tasks, or specific controllers to communicate with other applications.

![Ibexa Headless data inputs and outputs](img/headless.png)

## Capabilities and benefits

[[= product_name_headless =]] is a tool box with a Back Office.
It comes without a default front office.
You don't lose time to develop a theme for a provided front office before discovering it won't fit your needs.
No distraction.
[[= product_name_headless =]] helps you focus on the content, create and organize with its straightforward user interface (UI),
imagine its inputs/outputs, and implement them with its various layers' APIs.

### Core features

The core of [[= product_name =]] Headless edition is already awesome as it offers everything to structure your content repositories and access them.

#### Content model

> - Content items are organized as a tree in a repository.

Author: @dabrt What about this intro?
```suggestion
Content modeling and management are the foundation of [[= product_name =]] with the following main layers:

- Content items are organized as a tree in a repository.
```

- An item can have multiple locations in this tree.
- Content items are typed.
- Content types are sets of typed data fields, with eventually conditions on the possible values.
- Rich Text Field Type comes with an online editor. See [Online Editor product guide](online_editor_guide.md) for more.
- Multilingual, it can store a content in several languages, the content model define which field must be translated, and which don't vary.

> See [Content management product guide](content_management_guide.md) for more.

Author: Finished for "instances below" in fa5e4b04cd2154f716f92429499d80f541297c85

#### User management

- User and user group rights are set by roles with thin granular limited permission policies in a safe deny-by-default security system.
- Users are content items as well, so your knowledge about content management is reused.

See [User management product guide](user_management_guide.md) for more.

#### Content access

> 

Author: I try a short intro in 85f9cb8afe8e9b0f7dc607dc9bbfe58befabe9c1

- The REST API and GraphQL API support access to and edition of the content.
- [[= product_name_headless =]] offers a complete PHP API to extend the ways to access content.
- A design engine and a view controller offer to create plain text content views (such as HTML, JSON, XML, CSS, JS, CSV, or Markdown),
  and to factorize those views by using theme cascades.
  This design engine is used in the Back Office which is equally extendable.
- Multichannel, content can be accessed through several channel configurations,
  such as the domain name it replies to, the sub-part of the content tree it starts from, the users rights, or the design theme.
  The Back Office itself is such a channel.
- Multi-repository, the same platform can use separate databases if impermeability is needed between channel groups.

### Advanced features

On top of this strong core, [[= product_name =]] Headless edition brings tools to increase user experience, from final front users to Back Office contributors.

> #### [[= product_name_headless =]] is a complete Digital Experience Platform (DXP)

Reviewer: I would  change the header of the section to "Complete DXP" and reuse this statement by expanding it into an introductory sentence...

"[[= product_name_headless =]] is a complete Digital Experience Platform (DXP), which comes with the following components to help users with content delivery:"

Author: ```suggestion
#### Complete DXP

[[= product_name_headless =]] is a complete Digital Experience Platform (DXP), which comes with the following components to enhance user's journey:
```

> - [[= product_name_headless =]] comes with a personalization engine, allowing to recommend content to the front user according to its behavior,
>   or, when authenticated, contents matching user's segment/group. See [Personalization product guide](personalization_brochure.md) for more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ```suggestion
- [Personalization](personalization_brochure.md) engine, which allows you recommend content to end users according to their behavior,
  or, when authenticated, by matching with their segment/group.
```

> - [[= product_name_headless =]]' scheduler allows to establish the future of the content and having a living front application with events even when the editorial team is absent or reduced. At midnight, during weekends or vacations, front users can discover new contents. A calendar summaries those scheduled content event. The calendar is extendable as everything in the Back Office, some event source could be added to coordinate content events with other company events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Content scheduler, which allows you to establish the future of the content and use events to have a living front application, even when the editorial team is absent or reduced.
This way, visitors can discover new content at midnight, during weekends or vacations.
A calendar summarises those scheduled content events.
Like everything in the Back Office, the calendar is extendable: you can add an event source to coordinate content events with other company events.
```
summarises  - presents a summary view of?
Try avoiding passive voice as often as possible

> #### [[= product_name_headless =]] adds more ways to structure and organize your content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Many ways to structure and organize content
```

> - [[= product_name_headless =]] has specific feature to organize complex products and their catalogs, making it a strong Product Information Management (PIM) software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Product Information Management](pim_guide.md) (PIM) helps organize complex products and their catalogs:
```

    - Product are organized per product types × variants × catalogs × categories × tags.
    - Product attributes are grouped and factorized among product types. For example, fabric + color + size can be shared by many clothing product types.
    - Product variants can rapidly be created by the automatic declination of attributes having a defined set of values.

>     - See [PIM product guide](pim_guide.md) for more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [[= product_name_headless =]]' taxonomy feature allows to tag content items to organize them by topics in a much intuitive way for the editor than a content tree with multiple locations would.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With [Taxonomy](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/master/content_management/taxonomy/taxonomy/) you can tag content items to organize them by topics in a much intuitive way for the editor than a content tree with multiple locations would.
```

Author: I avoided to introduce too much link. I could link each feature to its user or dev doc page but half of the text will become blue, hard to read with too many rebounds. So, I choose to only link to other product guides.

```suggestion
- With taxonomy, you can tag content items to organize them by topics in a much intuitive way for the editor than a content tree with multiple locations would.
```

  Tags themselves are organized in a tree, and synonyms are linked to a favorite terms. This tags organisation can be the task of a supervisor who won't need to move content items around a corporate content tree. At search time, tags can be keywords with a high value in relevance score to help the end user having results closer to the searched topic.

> #### [[= product_name_headless =]] is a collaborative workplace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Collaboration
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Several features help end users collaborate on the content:

```

> - Version comparison helps to track changes and to solve concurrent editing conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Version comparison helps track changes and solve concurrent editing conflicts.
```

- Workflows helps with collaborative editing chain.
  A built-in “Quick review“ workflow allows an editor to send a content draft to a colleague for review, and comment or publishing.
  But, as a framework, more complex workflows can be imagined, with several steps and paths, even some automated tasks.

> #### [[= product_name_headless =]] accelerates content editing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Accelerated content editing
```

> 

Reviewer: I'd gonsider getting rid of the bullets here and turning this sectionit into a regular paragraph

Author: I didn't find how to address this properly.

- [[= product_name_headless =]]'s content tree has several actions available directly on its items. For example, no need to open a content to hide it, you can do it directly from the content tree.
- An Image Editor offers to crop and flip images. When serving the image in various context, you can even set a focal point to indicate to automated cropping which part of the image should be kept.
- A Digital Asset Management (DAM) help to crawl in your image ressources to use and reuse them in your content. And a DAM connector allows to also search in your images hosted on third party DAM servers.

> #### [[= product_name_headless =]] integrates into the networks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Network integration
```

And a sentence of intro

##### Intranets and extranets

> - [[= product_name_connect =]] is to create application interconnections with low code, drag-and-drop and a very visual interface.

Author: ```suggestion
- [[= product_name_connect =]]'s role is to create application interconnections with low code and drag-and-drop, in a compelling visual interface.
```

  This choice might be influenced by technology you already use, or you want to invest in for other internal projects.
- [[= product_name_headless =]] offers to export and import from command line part of the content model or content items.
  For example, it can be used to move new content types and items from a staging instance to the production one.

##### Internet, delivery, web search engines, and social networks

- [[= product_name_headless =]] comes with the support of Fastly content delivery network (CDN).
  The HTTP cache varies on current user's role and is purged when content change.
  With is huge network of points of presence (POP) around the world, Fastly is quickly delivering cached content from nearest server for a better user experience.
- A Search Engine Optimization (SEO) field implements best practices about web search engine indexing and social network sharing.
  It covers canonical URLs which are mandatory if multiple locations are used for a same Content item to avoid duplicate content,
  Open Graph protocol to better describe a Content item to social networks and search engine, and Twitter Cards.

## Use cases

> 

Reviewer: I'd turn this list onto an intro paragraph: choose two, three most compelling use cases from the list, create a sentence or two with them, followed by the two paragraphs that you already have.

Author: I moved few things to the two example and just turn this into a section intro.

- A website to inform about your organization
- An online catalog to expose your products and convince potential customer to contact you
- A collaborative workspace to produce content, and feeds providing content to partners' or parent organization's network
- A feed to a phone app allowing to consult instruction manuals with mobility while using your products

> - A structuring first step to create online presence, before increasing user experience with [[= product_name_experience =]], and finally becoming an online store with [[= product_name_commerce =]].

Reviewer: Product name placeholders did not convert properly

Author: ```suggestion
- A structuring first step to create online presence, before increasing user experience with [[= product_name_exp =]], and finally becoming an online store with [[= product_name_com =]].
```

It comes without a default front office.
You don't lose time to develop a theme for a provided front office before discovering it won't fit your needs.
No distraction.
[[= product_name_headless =]] helps you focus on the content, create and organize with its straightforward user interface (UI),
imagine its inputs/outputs, and implement them with its various layers' APIs.

### Core features

The core of [[= product_name =]] Headless edition is already awesome as it offers everything to structure your content repositories and access them.

#### Content model

- Content items are organized as a tree in a repository.
- An item can have multiple locations in this tree.
- Content items are typed.
- Content types are sets of typed data fields, with eventually conditions on the possible values.
- Rich Text Field Type comes with an online editor. See [Online Editor product guide](online_editor_guide.md) for more.
- Multilingual, it can store a content in several languages, the content model define which field must be translated, and which don't vary.

See [Content management product guide](content_management_guide.md) for more.

#### User management

> - User and user group rights are set by roles with thin granular limited permission policies in a safe deny-by-default security system.
> - Users are content items as well, so your knowledge about content management is reused.

Author: ```suggestion
User and user group rights are set by roles with thin granular limited permission policies in a safe deny-by-default security system.
Users are content items as well, so your knowledge about content management is reused.
```

#### Collaboration

Several features help end users collaborate on the content:

- Version comparison helps track changes and solve concurrent editing conflicts.
- Workflows helps with collaborative editing chain.
  A built-in “Quick review“ workflow allows an editor to send a content draft to a colleague for review, and comment or publishing.
  But, as a framework, more complex workflows can be imagined, with several steps and paths, even some automated tasks.

#### Accelerated content editing

- [[= product_name_headless =]]'s content tree has several actions available directly on its items. For example, no need to open a content to hide it, you can do it directly from the content tree.
- An Image Editor offers to crop and flip images. When serving the image in various context, you can even set a focal point to indicate to automated cropping which part of the image should be kept.
- A Digital Asset Management (DAM) help to crawl in your image ressources to use and reuse them in your content. And a DAM connector allows to also search in your images hosted on third party DAM servers.

#### Network integration

##### Intranets and extranets

> - [[= product_name_connect =]] is to create application interconnections with low code, drag-and-drop and a very visual interface.

Author: ```suggestion
- [[= product_name_connect =]]'s role is to create application interconnections with low code and drag-and-drop, in a compelling visual interface.
```

![Ibexa Headless data inputs and outputs](img/headless.png)

APIs summary:

- The REST and GraphQL APIs give access to access the content in standardized ways.
- The OAuth 2 Client and Server allow to connect to an SSO or be the SSO.
- The design engine and its theme templates mechanism allows to serve the content in several shapes.
- The PHP API opens [[= product_name_headless =]] to extendability to fit your needs.
  For example, content can be computed, edited or served in specific ways such as
  scheduled/live imports/exports, automated edition tasks, or specific controllers to communicate with other applications.

## Capabilities and benefits

[[= product_name_headless =]] is a tool box with a Back Office.
It comes without a default front office.
You don't lose time to develop a theme for a provided front office before discovering it won't fit your needs.
No distraction.
[[= product_name_headless =]] helps you focus on the content, create and organize with its straightforward user interface (UI),
imagine its inputs/outputs, and implement them with its various layers' APIs.

### Core features

> The core of [[= product_name =]] Headless edition is already awesome as it offers everything to structure your content repositories and access them.

Author: As "everything is awesome" anyway, this can be removed.

```suggestion
The core of [[= product_name_headless =]] offers everything to structure your content repositories and access them.
```

I feel like it misses an adjective to keep a bit of marketing tone. Like "hard core".

---
title: Ibexa Headless
description: Explore Ibexa Headless' features, capabilities and benefits.
---

# Ibexa DXP Headless edition product guide

## What is [[= product_name_headless =]]

The Headless edition of [[= product_name =]] focuses on content management.
It provides tools to collaboratively create content, and interfaces (API) to distribute this content.

> Multilingual, multichannel, extensible, [[= product_name_headless =]] is an advanced Content Management Framework (CMF), a Product Information Management (PIM) platform, and even a Digital Asset Management (DAM) repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multilingual, multichannel, extensible, [[= product_name_headless =]] is an advanced Content Management Framework (CMF), a Product Information Management (PIM) platform, as well as a Digital Asset Management (DAM) repository.
```

### Core features

The core of [[= product_name_headless =]] offers everything to structure your content repositories and access them.

#### Content model

Content modeling and management are the foundation of [[= product_name =]] with the following main layers:

- Content items are organized as a tree in a repository.
- An item can have multiple locations in this tree.
- Content items are typed.
- Content types are sets of typed data fields, with eventually conditions on the possible values.
- Rich Text Field Type comes with an [online editor](online_editor_guide.md).
- Multilingual, it can store a content in several languages, the content model define which field must be translated, and which don't vary.

For more information, see [Content management product guide](content_management_guide.md).

#### User management

User and user group rights are set by roles with thin granular limited permission policies in a safe deny-by-default security system.
Users are content items as well, so your knowledge about content management is reused.

For more information, see [User management product guide](user_management_guide.md).

#### Content access

> There is many paths to access the content in many shapes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many paths to access the content in many shapes:
```

---
description: Ibexa DXP Headless edition features, capabilities and benefits.
---

# Ibexa DXP Headless edition product guide

## What is Ibexa Headless

Ibexa DXP Headless edition focuses on content management. It provides tools to collaboratively create content,
and interfaces (API) to distribute this content.

Multilingual, multichannel, extensible, Ibexa Headless is an advanced Content Management Framework (CMF),
a Product Information Management (PIM) platform, and even a Digital Asset Management (DAM) repository.
It is provided without a default front office but with a complete back office, and several APIs to manage and access content.

## Availability

> Ibexa Headless license is available from 30k€/year.

Author: TODO: Remove price, link to https://www.ibexa.co/products/pricing#headless

Author: https://www.ibexa.co/products/pricing?tab=1
